A common question that comes up during interviews, especially when you will be collaborating with a
lot of different teams or a lot of different members within the same team is how do you respond to conflicts
at work?
Now, if you've ever had or been part of a conflict at work, then this should be very easy for you
to say.
For for you to build your case around.
If you have not been a part of conflict at work, then you don't have a benchmark.
So think about if you've ever been in a conflict anywhere at school, perhaps at home.
How did you respond to that?
The best way.
The underlying question here is, are you a team player?
Do you put the needs of the team and the company above your own personal needs?
Now, that said, the way you want to approach it is you want to state the root cause of the conflict
and what your views were and what the other person's views were and what you did to proactively defuse
the conflict and then talk about what the end result was.
You can always use the starter approach here the situation, the task, the action and the response.
So you want to with the situation, you want to talk about the root cause and the task was what you
did to resolve that problem.
What?
And in between you will also talk about how you felt and how the other person felt and you're going
to empathise with them.
So you will not just be presenting your view.
You will talk about how the other person felt and why you feel they felt that way.
Do not badmouth other people.
Do not badmouth your colleagues.
Don't talk trash about them and try to keep it professional.
And to the point, do not display emotions at this point.
You're trying to convey information.
You're not trying to convince anyone of anything.
They want to see if you are a team player or not and you want to show them not just the team playing
stuff, but also your critical thinking, which is very, very important to solving problems and solving
conflicts and just like solving problems the same thing.
Thank you very much.
And let's take a look at the next question in the next video.